

This a model from the article:  
** Fermentation pathway kinetics and metabolic flux control in suspended and immobilized Saccharomyces cerevisiae **   
Jorge L. Galazzo and James E. Bailey _Enzyme and Microbial Technology_Volume
12, Issue 3, 1990, Pages 162-172.  
DOI:[10.1016/0141-0229(90)90033-M](dx.doi.org/10.1016/0141-0229\(90\)90033-M)  
**Abstract:**   
Measurements of rates of glucose uptake and of glycerol and ethanol formation
combined with knowledge of the metabolic pathways involved in S. cerevisiae
were employed to obtain in vivo rates of reaction catalysed by pathway enzymes
for suspended and alginate-entrapped cells at pH 4.5 and 5.5. Intracellular
concentrations of substrates and effectors for most key pathway enzymes were
estimated from in vivo phosphorus-31 nuclear magnetic resonance measurements.
These data show the validity in vivo of kinetic models previously proposed for
phosphofructokinase and pyruvate kinase based on in vitro studies. Kinetic
representations of hexokinase, glycogen synthetase, and glyceraldehyde
3-phosphate dehydrogenase, which incorporate major regulatory properties of
these enzymes, are all consistent with the in vivo data. This detailed model
of pathway kinetics and these data on intracellular metabolite concentrations
allow evaluation of flux-control coefficients for all key enzymes involved in
glucose catabolism under the four different cell environments examined. This
analysis indicates that alginate entrapment increases the glucose uptake rate
and shifts the step most influencing ethanol production from glucose uptake to
phosphofructokinase. The rate of ATP utilization in these nongrowing cells
strongly limits ethanol production at pH 5.5 but is relatively insignificant
at pH 4.5.

** [SBML](http://www.sbml.org/) level 2 code generated for the JWS Online project by Jacky Snoep using [PySCeS](http://pysces.sourceforge.net/)   
Run this model online at
[http://jjj.biochem.sun.ac.za](http://jjj.biochem.sun.ac.za/)  
To cite JWS Online please refer to: Olivier, B.G. and Snoep, J.L. (2004) [Web-
based modelling using JWS Online](http://bioinformatics.oupjournals.org/cgi/co
ntent/abstract/20/13/2143), Bioinformatics, 20:2143-2144 **

.

.

.

.

.

.

_ Biomodels Curation:_ The model reproduces Fig 2 of the paper. However, it
appears that the figures are swapped, hence the plot for V/Vmax vs Glucose
actually represnts V/Vmax vs ATP and the vice versa is true for the other
figure. The rate of hexokinase reaction that is obtained upon simulation of
the model is 17.24 mM/min, therefore V/Vmax has a value of 17.24/68.5=0.25.
For steady state values of Glucose and ATP (0.038 and 1.213 mM respectively),
the V/Vmax values correctly correspond to 0.25, if we were to assume that the
figures are swapped.

_ BioModels Curation updated on 25th November 2010: _ Figure 3 of the
reference publication has been reproduced and added as a curation figure for
the model.

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
For more information see the [terms of
use](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/legal.html).  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)

